The Project Gutenberg eBook of The Tiddly Winks, by Laura Rountree
Smith

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: The Tiddly Winks

Author: Laura Rountree Smith

Illustrator: Haidee Zack Walsh

Release Date: September 25, 2022 [eBook #69047]

Language: English

Produced by: Charlene Taylor and the Online Distributed Proofreading
             Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from
             images generously made available by The Internet
             Archive/American Libraries.)

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE TIDDLY WINKS ***






THE TIDDLY WINKS


EASY READING LIBRARY OF “JUST RIGHT BOOKS”

    The Tiddly Winks
    Open Air Stories
    Surprise Stories
    Gingerbread Boy
    The Party Twins
    Doll Land Stories
    The Treasure Twins
    Tale of Curly Tail
    Washington’s Boyhood
    Reading Time Stories
    Comical Circus Stories
    Knowledge Primer Games
    Real Out-of-Door Stories
    Jolly Polly and Curly Tail
    Fifty Funny Animal Tales
    The Flower and Berry Babies
    In and Out-Door Playgames
    A Child’s Garden of Verses
    Busy Fingers Drawing Primer
    Happy Manikin in Manners Town
    The Vegetable and Fruit Children
    The Dinner That Was Always There
    Six Tiddly Winks and The A to Zees

                               Published by
                           ALBERT WHITMAN & CO.
                            Chicago, U. S. A.




[Illustration: _They Danced in a Ring at the Picnic_]




                                   THE
                              TIDDLY WINKS

                          Text by
                          LAURA ROUNTREE SMITH

                              Author of   Six Tiddly Winks
                                          Happy Manikin
                                          Jolly Polly, etc.

                          Pictures by     HAIDEE
                                          ZACK
                                          WALSH

                             [Illustration]

                            A JUST RIGHT BOOK
                              Published by
                             ALBERT WHITMAN
                                 COMPANY
                                 CHICAGO

                             THE TIDDLY WINKS
                 Copyright, 1923, By Albert Whitman & Co.
                             Chicago, U.S.A.

                             [Illustration]

                            A JUST RIGHT BOOK
                            MADE IN THE U.S.A.

                               ©Cl A 752716




INTRODUCTION


    Tiddly Winks is a little fairy,
    And he sings like a canary.
    Another fairy is Tiddly Wee,
    He is just as cunning as can be.
    Tiddly Thrift is a saving mite,
    He wears a jacket snug and bright.
    Tiddly Cheer-Up with smiling face,
    Is always welcome any place.
    Tiddly Scowl looks at you and me,
    He is just as cross as he can be.
    Tiddly Why will make you sigh,
    He asks questions, My! Oh My!

    A child can read if he stops and thinks,
    So say the little Tiddly Winks;
    If you will learn your A, B, C’s,
    You soon can read good books like these.
    The Tiddly Winks cry, “Ho, ho,”
    How many words do you REALLY know?
    One hundred or more, can you answer “Yes”?
    Or do you read your books BY GUESS?




FOREWORD


The Tiddly Winks are good natured little fairies who teach lessons of
thrift and good cheer. Here we meet Tiddly Winks, Tiddly Wee, Tiddly
Thrift, Tiddly Cheer-Up, Tiddly Scowl, and Tiddly Why, all having the
characteristics of real children.

Who would not take delight in learning their A, B, C’s with the Tiddly
Winks?

A story of the Wee People—for Wee People, written in charming and simple
style, to be used in school and home as a first reader, carefully graded
with repetition of simple words and phrases.

Objects in the school room take a lively interest in the Tiddly Winks,
find voices, and even the School Bell outside remarks,

    “Hear my song, hear my rhyme,
    Hurry children, be on time.”

If you still inquire, “Who are the Tiddly Winks?” we will let them reply
in their own fashion,

    “Who are we? Who are we?
    Tiddly Winks as all can see;
    We are a very merry band,
    And we come from Fairyland.”




CONTENTS


    Counting
    Good Morning
    The School Bell
    A-B-C’s
    What Day
    Hurry
    Ding-Dong
    Smiling Face
    Fun
    The Books
    The Fairy
    Monday
    The Chimes
    Clothes Line
    Fairy Wind
    The Calendar
    Games
    Hide and Seek
    The Blue Sky
    The Noise
    The Rain
    Little Busy Bee
    Tiddly Wee
    The Helpers
    Count By Two’s
    Little Fairy Men
    On Time
    Late
    Tiddly Thrift
    To Save
    Sweet Cookies
    Jolly Cooks
    The Picnic
    Tiddly Cheer-Up
    Tiddly Scowl
    Laugh and Play
    To Tell Time
    The Hours
    Wake Up
    The Breakfast
    Tiddly Why
    The New Song
    That Way
    Bread and Cheese
    Valentines
    Spring
    A House
    The Seeds
    The Garden
    The Sun
    The Ride
    To Fish
    Catching Fish
    The Maypole
    The Rag Doll
    To Write
    The Letter
    The Visit
    The Top
    The Airship
    Flying Home
    The Owl
    Rest Day
    Merry June
    Peeping
    To Remember
    Good-Bye




LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS


    They Danced in a Ring at the Picnic                      _Frontispiece_

    He Wheeled Him in a Wheelbarrow                                Page 10

    Tiddly Winks Bowed to the Waste Basket                          ”   19

    Tiddly Winks Jumped into the Ink Well                           ”   21

    He Began to Swing on the Pendulum                               ”   25

    Tiddly Winks Made the Clothes Look Funny                        ”   29

    He Went to Sleep in a Clothes Basket                            ”   31

    Tiddly Winks Danced with the Mouse                              ”   33

    He Watched One Little Girl                                      ”   39

    Tiddly Winks Laughed Like a Brownie                             ”   41

    Tiddly Winks Ran on One Side                                    ”   45

    He Ran a Race Round and Round the Old Clock’s Face              ”   59

    On His Velocipede                                               ”   63

    Sawing Wood                                                     ”   67

    Skating                                                         ”   71

    Dancing                                                         ”   74

    I Live in a Doll House Under the Old Apple Tree                 ”   82

    When I begin I like to Spin                                     ”   84

    Playing Leap-Frog                                               ”   89




[Illustration: _He Wheeled Him in a Wheelbarrow_]




THE TIDDLY WINKS

[Illustration]




COUNTING


Tiddly Winks says,

    One, two,
    How do you do?

Tiddly Wee says,

    Three, four,
    Here comes one more.

Tiddly Thrift says,

    Five, six,
    I have saving tricks.

The Tiddly Winks.

Tiddly Cheer-Up says,

    Seven, eight
    Laugh at any rate.

Tiddly Scowl says,

    Nine, ten,
    I scowl again.

Tiddly Why says,

    Eleven, twelve,
    Why not count like elves?

    We Can Count As Well As Think,
    Says Every Little Tiddly Wink!




GOOD MORNING


“Good morning,” said Tiddly Winks.

“Good morning,” sang the School Bell.

“Who are you?” asked Tiddly Winks.

“Who are you?” asked the School Bell.

Tiddly Winks said,

    “I am a fairy, light and airy,
    And I sing like a canary.”

The School Bell was busy ringing.

The School Bell was busy singing,

    “I am the School Bell, ding dong,
    I am the School Bell, hear my song.”




THE SCHOOL BELL


Tiddly Winks heard the song.

Tiddly Winks heard the School Bell sing.

He said, “I am a cousin of the Brownies.”

The School Bell said, “I am a cousin of the Church Bell.”

Tiddly Winks said, “See the children!”

The children were coming to school.

The School Bell sang,

    “They come to school at half past eight,
    I hope that no one will be late.”

Tiddly Winks curled up in the School Bell.

He curled up and went to sleep.




A. B. C.


Tiddly Winks reads “A-B-C.”

Can you read “A-B-C?”

The School Bell cannot read at all.

The School Bell can only sing.

Tiddly Winks come read to me.

Can you read like a fairy?

    Tiddly Winks, if you please
    I know all my A, B, C’s.




WHAT DAY?


“Good morning again,” said Tiddly Winks.

“Good morning to you,” sang the School Bell.

“What day is it?” asked Tiddly Winks.

The School Bell sang, “It is Monday morning.”

He said, “I must ring on Monday morning.”

Tiddly Winks said, “The children are coming.”

He said, “They are carrying dinner-pails.”

The School Bell sang,

    “Hear my song, hear my rhyme
    Hurry children, be on time.”




HURRY


The children came hurrying to school.

The children came to school on time.

Tiddly Winks said, “I will go to school, too.”

He said, “I will go to school on time.”

He said, “I will go to school on Monday.”

Tiddly Winks peeped into the window.

He peeped into the school room.

He called to the children, “Good morning!”

They said, “Good morning, Tiddly Winks.”

[Illustration]




DING DONG


“Ding, dong,” sang the School Bell.

“Good morning,” said Tiddly Winks.

Tiddly Winks said, “I have been gone a week.”

The School Bell said, “It is Monday morning.”

Tiddly Winks said, “Are you tired ringing?”

The School Bell said, “Are you tired singing?”

They sang together on Monday morning,

    “Hurry, hurry, take your place,
    Take your seat, with smiling face.”




SMILING FACE


Tiddly Winks said, “Can I take a seat?”

He had a very smiling face.

Tiddly Winks met the School Room Clock.

He said, to the clock, “Good morning.”

[Illustration: _Tiddly Winks Bowed to the Waste Basket_]

The School Room Clock said, “Tick, tock.”

Tiddly Winks bowed to the Waste Basket.

The Waste Basket was empty.

He sang,

    “Once in a while, once in a while,
    They carry me up, and down, the aisle.”




FUN


Sure enough bye and bye the Waste Basket went up and down.

He was carried in the aisle.

He was carried between the seats.

Tiddly Winks came early to school.

Tiddly Winks was full of fun.

[Illustration: _Tiddly Winks Jumped Into the Ink Well_]

He saw the children’s copy books.

The copy books were open on the desks.

Tiddly Winks jumped into an ink-well.

He jumped from desk to desk.

He jumped on the copy books.

You could see the marks of his feet!

The School Bell did not know what was going on.

He was outside ringing and singing.




THE BOOKS


The School Room Clock saw the copy books.

He saw the marks of little feet on them.

He put his hands over his face.

The School Room Clock wanted to hide!

He tried to hide his face with his hands!

The Waste Basket said, “I will get the books.”

He said, “I will get all the copy books!”

The School Room Clock ticked away, saying,

    “Rub out the marks this Monday morning,
    The teacher is coming, do take warning.”

[Illustration]




THE FAIRY


Tiddly Winks was a real fairy.

He blew on the copy books.

He blew away all the marks.

The marks of his feet were gone!

The Waste Basket said, “I am sad.”

He said, “I won’t get the copy books now.”

The School Room Clock said,

    “Come and help me run a race,
    See my hands go round my face.”




MONDAY


Tiddly Winks said, “I will come.”

He said to the School Room Clock, “Here I come.”

He jumped inside of the clock.

[Illustration: _He Began to Swing on the Pendulum_]

The children were coming to school.

They came to school on Monday.

They looked at the School Room Clock.

Tiddly Winks had stopped the Clock!

He began to swing on the pendulum.

He smiled at the children.

He said, “I always smile on Monday morning.”




THE CHIMES


Tiddly Winks slept a week in the Clock.

He woke up next Monday morning.

He said, “I will go and talk to the School Bell.”

The School Bell was singing, “ding, dong.”

“Good bye,” ticked the School Room Clock.

“Good bye,” whispered the Waste Basket.

Tiddly Winks called, “Good bye, good bye.”

He heard the School Bell singing,

    “Monday morning, be on time,
    Ding, dong, hear my chime.”

[Illustration]




CLOTHES LINE


One Monday morning Tiddly Winks ran away.

He ran away from school one Monday morning.

He saw washing on a line.

He blew inside a white skirt.

The skirt looked like a balloon.

He said, “It looks like a balloon.”

He blew inside all the clothes.

He made the clothes look funny.

He called to the funny clothes on the line.

Tiddly Winks called, “Good bye.”

[Illustration: _Tiddly Winks Made the Clothes Look Funny_]




FAIRY WIND


Tiddly Winks did not run far away.

He curled up to sleep.

He went to sleep in the clothes basket.

He woke and said, “What day is it?”

The Sun said, “Ask Fairy Wind.”

Tiddly Winks asked again about the day.

Fairy Wind said,

    “Ask that question now in school,
    You’ll learn something, as a rule.”

Tiddly Winks ran back to school.




THE CALENDAR


“Good morning,” sang the School Bell.

“Good morning,” ticked the Clock.

[Illustration: _He Went to Sleep in a Clothes Basket_]

“Good morning,” whispered the Waste Basket.

The School Room Mouse came out.

Tiddly Winks danced with him.

Tiddly Winks said, “What day is it?”

The Mouse said, “Ask the Calendar.”

The Calendar hung on the wall.

The Calendar had names on it.

It had names of days on it.

It had numbers on it, too.

The Calendar nodded to Tiddly Winks.

It said, “It is Tuesday morning.”




GAMES


Tiddly Winks said, “It is Tuesday morning.”

[Illustration: _Tiddly Winks Danced with the Mouse_]

He said, “Let us play a game.”

The School Room Mouse said, “I can play.”

He said, “We can play hide-and-seek.”

The Waste Basket said, “I will play.”

He said, “Let us play cat-and-mouse.”

They played games before school.

They played hide-and-seek.

They played cat-and-mouse.

They played games on Tuesday morning.




HIDE AND SEEK


The children came in on Tuesday.

They took their seats on Tuesday morning.

They did not see Tiddly Winks.

He hid behind the Calendar.

He was thinking about hide-and-seek.

He said, “I will hide here to-day.”

He said, “I will hide in a pencil-box.”

He said, “I will hide in a dinner-pail.”

Tiddly Winks played hide-and-seek.

He played hide-and-seek on Tuesday.




THE BLUE SKY


    “Good morning, good morning, the sky is so blue,
    Good morning, good morning, good morning to you.”

The children sang this song.

The School Bell stopped ringing.

He stopped to hear the children sing.

The School Room Clock kept on ticking.

He said,“Where is Tiddly Winks?”

He said, “Where is he on Tuesday?”

Tiddly Winks was in a pencil-box.

He made a noise in the pencil-box.

He made the pencils rattle.




THE NOISE


What a noisy pencil-box!

What a noise in the desk!

What a noise in the room!

The teacher said,

    “Fold your hands and quiet keep,
    Play you all are fast asleep.”

The children folded their hands.

They kept very quiet.

Tiddly Winks was quiet too.

He said, “I learned something.”

He learned something on Tuesday.

Tiddly Winks fell asleep.

He fell asleep on Tuesday morning.

[Illustration]




THE RAIN


One Tuesday morning it rained.

It rained harder and harder.

Tiddly Winks said, “Will the children sing?”

He said, “They cannot sing about blue skies.”

He said, “Can they sing to-day?”

The School Room Clock said, “Wait and see.”

The Waste Basket said, “They will sing.”

The School Bell did not mind the rain.

He sang as usual, “ding, dong.”




LITTLE BUSY BEE


The children came to school.

They came that rainy day to school.

They sang a new song.

    “Good morning on a rainy day,
    We sing to keep the blues away.”

Tiddly Winks clapped his tiny hands.

He said, “I will sing the new song.”

He watched one little girl.

She was busy at work all day.

He said she is a busy girl.

He called her “Little Busy Bee.”




TIDDLY WEE


Tiddly Winks met another fairy.

He said to the fairy, “Good morning.”

[Illustration: _He Watched One Little Girl_]

The fairy answered, “Good morning.”

Tiddly Winks said, “What is your name?”

The fairy answered, “I am Tiddly Wee.”

Tiddly Winks laughed like a Brownie.

Tiddly Winks said, “It is Tuesday morning.”

Tiddly Winks said, “It is ironing day.”




THE HELPERS


    “Sing a song and have some fun,
    ’Twill help you get the ironing done.”

Tiddly Wee sang this little song.

He sang this song on Tuesday.

[Illustration: _Tiddly Winks Laughed Like a Brownie_]

He helped Tiddly Winks iron his sheets.

Tiddly Winks ironed pillow cases.

These little fairies liked to iron.

They liked to iron on Tuesday.

They soon had ironed all the clothes.

Tiddly Winks said, “Let us go to school.”

Tiddly Wee said, “We will go to-morrow.”




COUNT BY TWO’S


Tiddly Winks said, “Where is my cap?”

Tiddly Wee said, “Where is my coat?”

Tiddly Winks found his red cap.

Tiddly Wee found his red coat.

They went to school on Wednesday.

They learned to count on Wednesday.

They learned to count by two’s.

    Two, four, six, eight,
    Count by two’s, don’t be late.

“Ding, dong,” rang the School Bell.

“Tick, tock,” sang the Clock.




LITTLE FAIRY MEN


The Waste Basket said, “I can count.”

The Calendar said, “See all my numbers,

    “One, two, three, four,
    Come in please—shut the door.”

Tiddly Winks wrote numbers.

Tiddly Wee wrote on the board.

    “We are little Fairy Men,
    We can count up to ten.”

The School Room Mouse looked at them.

He looked out of the Clock.

He sang,

    “I can count very well,
    But how far, I won’t tell.”

Tiddly Winks said, “I like to count.”

Tiddly Wee said, “I can count on Wednesday.”




ON TIME


Tiddly Winks came to school.

Tiddly Wee came early to school.

“Good morning,” sang the School Bell.

[Illustration: _Tiddly Winks Ran on One Side, Tiddly Wee Ran on the
Other_]

Tiddly Winks said,

    “I have pennies, and a dime,
    See, I always come on time.”

Tiddly Wee said,

    “For the children we will wait,
    How I hope they won’t be late.”

One little boy was often late.

One little boy was a sleepy-head.

Tiddly Winks said,

    “Try to get to school on time,
    Help the fairies make a rhyme.”




LATE


One little girl was late to school.

One little girl was often late.

The little girl was late to breakfast.

Tiddly Winks said,

    “Tiddly Winks soon I will wake you,
    And to school I will take you.”

Tiddly Winks woke the little girl.

Tiddly Wee ran with her to school.

Tiddly Winks ran on one side.

Tiddly Wee ran on the other.




TIDDLY THRIFT


    Tiddly Thrift got off the boat,
    In a neatly mended coat.

He came to town on Wednesday.

Tiddly Thrift said, “It is Wednesday.”

He wore a mended coat on Wednesday.

He met Tiddly Winks and Tiddly Wee.

Tiddly Thrift said,

    “We must save paper and string,
    We must save time and everything.”

Tiddly Thrift taught the children.

He taught them to save paper.

He taught them to write on both sides.




TO SAVE


The Waste Basket began to cry.

He began to cry on Wednesday.

“See the children save their paper.”

“They write on both sides of the paper.”

“How will I ever get full of paper?”

Tiddly Winks saw the children save paper.

Tiddly Wee said, “They will save time too.”

The School Room Clock said,

    “Tick, tock, tick, tock,
    They’ll save time like as not.”

The School Room Mouse began to squeak.

He squeaked, “I hope they will save crumbs.”

He said, “Will they save crumbs for me?”




SWEET COOKIES


    Tiddly Winks as you know,
    In the kitchen now must go,
    Tiddly Wee, as you see,
    Makes the fire burn merrily,
    Tiddly Thrift every hour,
    Saves the butter, saves the flour.
    They get out the rolling-pin,
    So the fun will soon begin!
    They mix some cookies for a treat,
    Cut them out, and make them sweet,
    In the oven they baked them too,
    Just as you or I would do.

[Illustration]




JOLLY COOKS


    Tiddly Winks and Tiddly Wee,
    Are very little cooks you see,
    Tiddly Thrift has come to town,
    And he will bake the cookies brown.
    The cook will have a nice surprise,
    When the cookies greet her eyes,
    The fairies say, “Do you like our looks?
    You see we all are jolly cooks.”
    The kitchen Clock upon the wall,
    Said, “I like Tiddly Thrift the best of all.”
    Tiddly Winks and Tiddly Wee,
    Were just as busy as could be!

[Illustration]




THE PICNIC


“Hurry, hurry,” called Tiddly Winks.

“Hurry up,” cried Tiddly Wee.

“Hurry to the picnic,” said Tiddly Thrift.

Some of the Tiddly Winks were late.

Tiddly Cheer-Up came smiling.

He came singing,

    “Let us never trouble borrow,
    Start to-day, or start to-morrow.”

They went on a picnic on Thursday.

They went to the woods.

They carried picnic baskets.




TIDDLY CHEER-UP


Tiddly Winks fell in the water.

Tiddly Wee helped him out.

Tiddly Thrift spread the lunch.

He said, “We will save the crumbs.”

Tiddly Cheer-Up smiled on every one.

He said,

    “Nothing will go very wrong,
    If we sing a ‘Cheer-Up’ song.”

They danced in a ring.

They danced in a ring at the picnic.

They danced and sang on Thursday.




TIDDLY SCOWL


“Good morning,” said Tiddly Winks.

“Is it a good morning?” asked Tiddly Scowl.

Tiddly Scowl was always scowling.

Tiddly Scowl was often late to school.

Tiddly Scowl said, “It is a rainy morning.”

Tiddly Scowl did not like the rain.

Tiddly Why came walking by.

Tiddly Why asked many questions.

Tiddly Why said, “Why do you scowl?”

He said, “Why don’t you like rain?”




LAUGH AND PLAY


“What day is it?” asked Tiddly Winks.

“What time is it?” asked Tiddly Wee.

“What shall we do next?” asked Tiddly Thrift.

“Let us laugh and play,” said Tiddly Cheer-Up.

“I cannot laugh and play,” said Tiddly Scowl.

[Illustration]

Tiddly Why said, “Why can’t you laugh?”

The Calendar said, “I know what day it is.”

The Calendar said, “It is Thursday.”

The Calendar said,

    “At my face come take a peek,
    There are seven days in a week.”

The School Room Clock said, “Good morning.”

It said, “I can tell you the time.”

    “Count the numbers on my face,
    Can you count numbers any place?”

Tiddly Winks counted numbers on the board.

Tiddly Wee counted numbers on the Calendar.

Tiddly Thrift counted numbers on the Clock’s face.

Tiddly Cheer-Up counted numbers on cards.

Tiddly Scowl counted no numbers at all.

Tiddly Why said, “Why don’t you count?”

Tiddly Winks said, “I want to tell time.”

Tiddly Why asked, “Why do you want to tell time?”




TO TELL TIME


“I want to tell time,” said Tiddly Winks.

The School Room Clock smiled at him.

He said, “Look at my two hands.”

He said,

    “Look at my shorter hand,
    It points to the hour you understand.”

Tiddly Winks repeated the words over and over.

The Clock spoke again,

    “Look at my longer hand,
    It points to the minutes, you understand.”

The School Room Clock went on talking.

    “I point to six, with my short hand,
    The long hand’s at twelve you understand,
    It is six o’clock, it is six o’clock,
    And time for supper, like as not.”




THE HOURS


Tiddly Winks began to learn to tell time.

[Illustration:

        _He Ran a Race,_
    _Round and Round the Old Clock’s Face_]

He learned to tell a little time every day.

He learned to tell the hours.

    Tiddly Winks then ran a race,
    Round and round the old clock’s face.

Tiddly Winks began to tell time on Thursday.

Tiddly Scowl said, “I cannot tell time.”

The School Bell rang again,

    “Ding, dong, work and play
    Children be on time to-day.”

“Why should we be on time?” asked Tiddly Why.

Tiddly Scowl said, “Dear me, why do you ask questions?”




WAKE UP


“Wake up, wake up,” called Tiddly Winks.

“I am awake,” said Tiddly Wee.

“Hurry up, save time,” sang Tiddly Thrift.

“Wake up happy,” said Tiddly Cheer-Up.

“I cannot look happy,” said Tiddly Scowl.

“Why shall we get-up?” asked Tiddly Why.

Tiddly Winks said, “Let us go to school.”

He said, “Let us go on Friday.”

Tiddly Winks said, “Come, get breakfast.”




THE BREAKFAST


Tiddly Thrift helped with breakfast.

He set the breakfast table.

Can you set the breakfast table?

Tiddly Cheer-Up cooked the coffee.

Tiddly Scowl said, “I don’t like coffee.”

Tiddly Winks said, “Drink some cocoa.”

Tiddly Wee said, “Drink some milk.”

Tiddly Why said, “Why do we drink coffee?”

Tiddly Winks said, “We like to drink coffee.”

Tiddly Scowl sat in the corner scowling.

[Illustration: _On His Velocipede_]




TIDDLY WHY


The Tiddly Winks hurried to school.

They all hurried to school on Friday.

The School Bell sang,

    “Good morning, I am glad to meet you,
    Good morning, I am glad to greet you.”

The School Room Clock sang,

    “Fall in line,
    It is quarter of nine.”

Tiddly Winks sat on the window-sill.

Tiddly Scowl came in late.

He stopped on the way to school.

He stopped to play ball.

Tiddly Why said, “Why are you late?”




THE NEW SONG


Tiddly Cheer-Up sang on Friday.

He sang a new song on Friday.

    “If the weather is wet,
    You’ll have fun yet,
    If the weather is cold,
    Please do not scold,
    If the weather is dry,
    To have fun we try,
    When the weather is warm,
    Comes a thunder storm,
    Cheer-Up, we have fun together.
    We like different kinds of weather.”

All the children learned the new song.

All the children liked the new song.

They sang together on Friday morning.




THAT WAY


The School Room Mouse said, “Good morning.”

He said, “I will be the teacher.”

He said, “What time is it, Tiddly Winks?”

Tiddly Winks replied, “It is school time.”

The School Room Mouse said, “Who can spell?”

He said, “Who can spell ‘Friday’?”

Tiddly Scowl said, “I cannot spell.”

He said,

    “From school I often stay away,
    I always scowl and scowl all day.”

Tiddly Thrift sang,

    “Save a little every day,
    We’ll be happier that way.”




BREAD AND CHEESE


The School Room Mouse was a funny teacher.

He said,

    “You must excuse me if you please,
    This Friday noon I smell fresh cheese.”

[Illustration: _Sawing Wood_]

He smelled some fresh cheese on Friday.

He smelled cheese from a dinner pail.

The School Room Mouse loved cheese.

One little boy ate his lunch.

The boy had bread and cheese for lunch.

He dropped some crumbs of bread.

He dropped some crumbs of cheese.

The School Room Mouse came out.

He came out and ate the cheese.




VALENTINES


Tiddly Winks made a valentine.

He made a valentine on Friday.

Friday was Saint Valentine’s day.

Tiddly Wee made a valentine too.

He made it like a heart.

Tiddly Scowl said, “I cannot make one.”

He said, “I cannot make a valentine.”

Tiddly Thrift helped him.

Tiddly Cheer-Up made up a verse.

He made a verse for his valentine.

    “I love you truly mother mine,
    You are my dearest valentine.”

Tiddly Wee made a pretty valentine.

He made a valentine for the baby.

He wrote on his valentine,

    “Baby brother with eyes so blue.
    Here is a valentine heart for you.”

They all made some envelopes.

They made envelopes for the valentines.

They put stamps on the envelopes.

They sent the valentines by mail.

Tiddly Scowl got an ugly valentine.

Tiddly Cheer-Up said,

    “If you will learn how to smile,
    It will make life worth while.”




SPRING


The Calendar said, “It is spring.”

“It is spring,” whispered the breezes.

“It is spring,” pattered the rain.

“It is spring,” sang the robin.

The birds were building nests.

“Where will I live?” asked Jenny Wren.

Jenny Wren said, “I want a new house.”

She said, “Who will build me a house?”

Tiddly Winks said,

    “I’ll build a wee house in the spring,
    When all the birds begin to sing.”




A HOUSE


“Who will build me a home?” asked Jenny Wren.

“I will,” said Tiddly Winks.

“I will,” answered Tiddly Wee.

Tiddly Thrift said, “Use a cigar box.”

Tiddly Cheer-Up found a cigar box.

[Illustration: _Skating_]

Tiddly Scowl said, “I cannot build a house.”

Tiddly Why said, “Why not?”

They soon made a house.

They made it out of a cigar box.

They made it for Jenny Wren.

She said,

    “It is spring again, spring again,
    Spring in sunshine, spring in rain.”




THE SEEDS


Tiddly Winks said, “It is spring.”

Tiddly Wee said, “Let us make a garden.”

Tiddly Thrift said, “I saved some seeds.”

He saved the seeds from last year.

Tiddly Cheer-Up said, “Where is the rake?”

Tiddly Scowl said, “I don’t like to rake.”

Tiddly Why said, “Why? Why?”

Tiddly Winks said, “Where is the hoe?”

They all sang,

    “With rake and hoe
    To the garden go,
    In the early spring
    When the robbins sing.”




THE GARDEN


The Tiddly Winks planted a garden.

They planted it in the spring.

They planted vegetable seeds.

They planted flower seeds.

Patter, patter, patter, fell the rain.

The rain helped the seeds grow.

The garden was planted on Saturday.

Another Saturday came.

The Tiddly Winks planted a tree.

They planted a tree on Saturday.

They planted a tree on Arbor Day.




THE SUN


The sun was shining one spring day.

The sun shone one Saturday.

Tiddly Winks got out the spade.

He said, “Let us make more garden.”

Tiddly Wee got out the wheelbarrow.

[Illustration: _Dancing_]

Tiddly Thrift said, “See the lettuce!”

Tiddly Cheer-Up said, “See the radishes!”

Tiddly Scowl said, “I wish they were violets.”

Tiddly Why said, “Why? Why?”




THE RIDE


    “Come rake and hoe,
    Make our garden grow.”

Sang Tiddly Winks one Saturday.

Tiddly Wee said, “The sun makes things grow.”

Tiddly Thrift said, “The rain makes things grow.”

Tiddly Scowl grew very tired.

Tiddly Winks wheeled him home.

He wheeled him in the wheelbarrow.

Tiddly Why said, “Why does he ride?”

Tiddly Cheer-Up said,

    “Cheer up, Cheer up, we are happy together,
    Cheer up, Cheer up, it is fine spring weather.”




TO FISH


Tiddly Winks said, “Let us go fishing.”

Tiddly Wee said, “I will go with you.”

Tiddly Thrift said, “Where is the fishing-rod?”

Tiddly Cheer-Up said, “Here is the fish hook.”

Tiddly Scowl said, “Who will dig worms?”

Tiddly Why said, “Why do we want worms?”

“We will bait the hook,” said Tiddly Winks.

“Will bait it with worms,” said Tiddly Wee.

The Tiddly Winks sang,

    “Happy at work, and happy at play,
    We’ll go fishing on a Saturday.”

[Illustration]




CATCHING FISH


The Tiddly Winks carried a basket.

They carried a basket for fish.

They sat on the bank to fish.

Tiddly Scowl said, “Why don’t the fish bite?”

By and by they caught some fish.

They put the fish in the covered basket.

They carried the basket home.

They all ate fish for supper.

They had fish for supper on Saturday.




THE MAYPOLE


Tiddly Winks said, “It is the first of May.”

Tiddly Wee said, “Where is the Maypole?”

Tiddly Thrift said, “We will make one.”

They made a Maypole from a pole.

They made it from a clothes pole.

They put gay streamers on it.

Each Tiddly Wink took hold of a streamer.

They danced round the Maypole.

They all sang,

    “Round the Maypole dance and play,
    In the merry month of May.”




THE RAG DOLL


Tiddly Winks got a letter.

He got a letter on Saturday.

The letter was from Toy Town.

It was written by the Rag Doll.

The Rag Doll said,

                                                  Toy Town, May 5th.

    Dear Tiddly Winks,

    I live in a new Doll House with many other toys.

    I would like you to visit me.

    Tell all the family to come and see me, and tell them that I
    live in the Doll House under the old apple tree.

                              Your friend,

                                                       The Rag Doll.




TO WRITE


Tiddly Winks said, “Here is a letter.”

He said, “Who will answer the letter?”

Tiddly Why said, “Why do you answer it?”

Tiddly Winks said, “We must be polite.”

Tiddly Thrift said, “I saved some paper.”

Tiddly Cheer-Up said, “We will make an envelope.”

The Tiddly Winks wrote a polite letter.

They put it in an envelope to send.

Tiddly Scowl said,

    “I can’t write a letter very well,
    For I never learned to spell.”




THE LETTER


This is the letter the Tiddly Winks wrote.

                                          Tiddly Wink Town, May 6th.

    Dear Rag Doll,

    We will come to-morrow to visit you.

    We will come to the Doll House under the apple tree.

    Thank you for your letter.

                          Your loving friends,

                                                   The Tiddly Winks.

[Illustration: _I Live in a Doll House Under the Old Apple Tree_]




THE VISIT


The Tiddly Winks called “Good-bye, good-bye.”

They called, “Good-bye Father and Mother.”

They went together to Toy Town.

They went to visit the Rag Doll.

They came to the Doll House.

The Rag Doll kissed them all.

The Rag Doll was glad to see them.

They sat in the new Doll House in Toy Town.




THE TOP


The Rag Doll said, “Where is Tiddly Scowl?”

[Illustration: _When I Begin I Like to Spin_]

Sure enough, where was Tiddly Scowl?

He was up stairs in the Doll House.

He looked out of the window.

He said, “I want to go home.”

Just then the Top began to talk.

    “I am the Top, will I never stop?
    Spin, spin, spin,
    With humming sound, I dance around,
    Spin, spin, spin.”

Tiddly Why said,

“Why doesn’t the top stop?”

The Top answered,

    “When I begin,
    I like to spin.”

Tiddly Thrift laughed at that.

Tiddly Cheer-Up said, “We must say ‘Good-bye’.”




THE AIRSHIP


Tiddly Winks said, “We must say, ‘Good-bye’.”

Tiddly Wee said, “See the Airship!”

The Airship sailed down, down.

They all got in the Airship.

They called to the Rag Doll, “Good-bye.”

She gave them a surprise.

The Rag Doll said, “I will sail with you.”

They all sailed back to Tiddly Winks Town.

They sailed over the houses.

They sailed over the tree-tops.




FLYING HOME


The Tiddly Winks all flew home.

They flew home in the big Airship.

They sang as they flew,

    “Hurrah, hurrah for Toy Town,
    We’re flying up on high,
    Hurrah, hurrah for Toy Town,
    Good bye, good bye, good bye.”

The Rag Doll said,

    “If you will open your eyes and look,
    You will find me smiling in this book.”

She went to live in a book.

She went to live with the Tiddly Winks.




THE OWL


Tiddly Winks had a pet owl.

He called him “Mr. Who.”

The Owl cried, “Tu-whit, tu-who.”

Tiddly Winks said, “Meet the Rag Doll.”

The Rag Doll said,

    “Are you really old and wise,
    I very much admire your size.”

The Owl replied,

    “I admire your bead eyes so bright,
    Can you read by candle-light?”

They all laughed at that.

The Rag Doll could not read at all!




REST DAY


Tiddly Winks could read very well.

Tiddly Wee could read and write.

Tiddly Thrift could also save.

Tiddly Cheer-Up was always happy.

Tiddly Scowl was always cross.

Tiddly Why asked too many questions.

They all sang,

    “On Monday, we will go to school
    And learn some lessons as a rule.
    We’ll go on Tuesday, Wednesday too,
    On Thursday learn a thing or two,
    On Friday we will be polite,
    We’ll also try to read and write,
    On Saturday we’ll have a play,
    And Sunday is our best, rest day.”




MERRY JUNE


Merry June came again.

June came with vacation.

Tiddly Winks was merry in June.

Tiddly Wee said, “I like vacation.”

Tiddly Thrift said, “I will work in vacation.”

[Illustration: _Playing Leap-Frog_]

Tiddly Scowl said,

    “I really don’t like any season,
    And I cannot tell the reason.”

Tiddly Why said, “Why don’t you like June?”

Tiddly Why asked too many questions.

He even wore a question mark on his cap?




PEEPING


Tiddly Winks said, “I will peep into school.”

He said, “I will peep in the school room window.”

He said, “I will say good-bye to the School Bell.”

He said, “I want to talk to the School Room Clock.”

He began to think about the School Room Mouse.

He wanted a word with the Waste Basket.

He wanted to talk to the Calendar.

Tiddly Winks went off dancing and singing.

    “I can sing a little if I try,
    And I can call, ‘good bye, good bye.’”




TO REMEMBER


Tiddly Winks heard the School Bell ringing.

He called, “Good-bye, School Bell.”

The School Bell said,

    “Good bye, good bye, please remember,
    School begins next September.”

Tiddly Winks answered,

    “I will try to remember,
    About next September!”

Tiddly Winks went into school.

He called, “Good-bye, Waste Basket.”

The Waste Basket replied,

    “I’ll be at work as I remember,
    Very early in September!”

Tiddly Winks looked at the Clock.

He called, “Good-bye, Mr. Time Keeper.”




GOOD-BYE


The School Room Clock sang,

    “I will start again as I remember,
    About the seventh of September!”

Tiddly Winks called, “Good-bye, School Room Mouse.”

The School Room Mouse answered,

    “I’ll get more crumbs as I remember,
    About the first week of September.”

The Calendar said, “Will no one speak to me?”

Tiddly Winks called, “Good-bye, old Calendar.”

The Calendar called,

    “I keep the days as you remember,
    School starts again next September.”

Tiddly Winks called happily,

    “WHEN YOU CLOSE THIS LITTLE BOOK
    OPEN IT AGAIN AND LOOK,
    HOW MANY LESSONS CAN YOU READ?
    IF YOU SAY ‘ALL’ YOU’RE WISE INDEED!”

    A greeting from the Tiddly Winks,
    May be in pencil, or in ink,
    Each Tiddly Winks will be your friend,
    From the beginning to the end!
    They learn so many things from you,
    And little tricks they like to do,
    If you learn things from them, they say,
    We’ll call again another day!

    Tiddly Winks can you read?
    Then you are very wise indeed,
    Put on spectacles if you need,
    Work with a will and you’ll succeed.


_FINIS_

_Have You Had the Six Tiddly Winks and the A to Zees?_

[Illustration]




ALBERT WHITMAN’S EASY READING JUVENILE LIBRARY

“JUST RIGHT BOOKS”


Profusely illustrated in colors; reinforced cloth binding; printed in
large type on fine paper; jackets in color; price each, 60c.

    The Tiddly Winks
    Surprise Stories
    The Party Twins
    Washington’s Boyhood
    Comical Circus Stories
    Real Out-of-Door Stories
    Fifty Funny Animal Tales
    In and Out-Door Playgames
    Child’s Garden of Verses
    The Treasure Twins
    Open Air Stories
    Gingerbread Boy
    Doll Land Stories
    Tale of Curly Tail
    Reading Time Stories
    Knowledge Primer Games
    Jolly Polly and Curly Tail
    Flower and Berry Babies
    Little Boy France
    Busy Fingers Drawing Primer
    Happy Manikin in Manners Town
    The Vegetable and Fruit Children
    The Dinner That Was Always There
    Six Tiddly Winks and the A to Zees

                               PUBLISHED BY
                         ALBERT WHITMAN & COMPANY
                            CHICAGO, U. S. A.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE TIDDLY WINKS ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
